# Leaving the Church
I was an international student at a University two and a half years ago when I met the people from the first church. At that time, I was not enjoying my study and my classmates. I was a little depressed, I believe. And unfortunately, I met a bad counselor so I didn't trust counseling. These people showed up to me, very warm, joyful, and free. So I was attracted by them and decided to know their faith as a secret behind their joy. They are a home church. They were rooted in "living stream ministry," which is one coming from Taiwan to the U.S., but they broke out of it because they are tired of the institutional system.

Immediately I moved into their "sisters' house," I was helped with how to do housework and how to be organized. And living stream ministry has its own version of the Bible, claiming their translation is the more accurate.( I compared later with NIV, it is mostly the same except for some terms). And this church addresses "church life," which takes the church as a living. We, single ladies, lived in the same house. We shared meals and schedules with each other. They also taught me how to drive, and back then, I initially was doing an intern in a company that was sponsored by the church and operated solely by church people. We have Friday night and Sunday morning service. Each of them is about 3 hours long. The pastor, which we didn't refer to as a pastor, but a "brother," majorly talked about things related to the Bible. Before each meeting, we bring our "love feast", which is usually cooked by multiple families. Other than that, we often study Bible-related materials once or twice a week. This is a very tight community. "Church as a living," so they abandoned things of the format, but took things of the reality, so they didn't have what a regular church has, like communion, like Christmas. We prayed out loud, crying to God, believing that the prayers out of released spirit instead of the human mind were closer to the conversation with God.

Most of this life was actually joyful, supported by a group of people, living my life with a purpose. But there's a doubt in my heart that I knew this life was so different from what most people live, and I was secretly worried that I was living in a bubble that eventually will break.

Back then, the first church addressed a lot on "putting the city on top of the mountain." (You are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Mathew 5:14) They believe that Christianity has been so long ignored and misunderstood, that religion is just set aside from most people's life. They wanted to let the world see, that religious people can also be rich in many other aspects of life. Therefore, they are trying to create new ways to prove to people and reach out to people. The company I interned in was one example. The reason I put so much trust in these people is that they are well-educated, including many PhDs from the university I graduated from, and the leader's Children also graduated from Harvard and Princeton. It is real. And I can sense that they had good intentions. So the leaders' children, and their friend, an MIT graduate, created a nonprofit organization promoting the culture and history of the city I lived in, aiming to educate young people from big cities to this small post-industrial city. They met many people in the government and corporations. I also worked for them; we all volunteer. We put a lot of energy and effort into it. I learned website building skills myself in this process and built and maintain the websites for both the company I interned and the nonprofit organization. I also edit social media videos for them. We even hosted a city-wide event inviting 1000+ people to come. We all volunteered. I spent all rest of my energy on it, feeling honored, thinking that I am serving God.

So far, the story seems all good. But many times when I faced myself, I questioned if it was really what I wanted to do—all I wanted at the beginning was to be joyful and free, but now I was devoting so much time and effort to it, and being taught and corrected on every aspect of my life, since I'm almost the youngest. The church leader often rebuked people in our gathering, as a mean for all of us to learn. And the concept I questioned in my heart was "sin." Even little children of 2- year-old were considered to naturally know how to manipulate their parents by crying and shouting. Therefore, the promoted practice was to scream and rebuke once the child started to do that. See, they are of the same principle on treating adults and children. I couldn't agree with that, because I am a very gentle and timid person. If I were the child, I would be rather treated gently with love.

When my study becomes more intense, well, actually, back then, in order to stay in this place, I applied for another MBA in this university, and later I also applied for the Ph.D. Ph.D. study is very intense. I felt tired and stressed by dealing with both my study, church life, and spiritual learning. Plus, I think they all tried to "help me" by pushing me to schedule more efficiently and spare some time with them as family time so that I was not entirely occupied by the study. But I am not an English speaker. And I also taught a class. In reality, the suggested schedule did not fit my ability. For some days, I could only sleep for 3~4 hours to get things done.

In the meantime, another young girl growing up in the church was facing something similar but on a more severe level. She's doing a nursing program, and working for the nonprofit organization. The leader thought she did not appreciate her study, so they pushed her to work in Mac Donald, to experience a "real life" supporting herself since her mom supported her. So she had to get up at 3 am every morning to work, and she constantly lacked sleep. In fact, three of the young people were already semi-forced to get up early and work in McDonald, even they have college degrees. And a sister with a post-doctor biological degree was already forced to quit her job and work in the their company, and she was once also forced to date with someone she didn't like. Of course, these people won't accept that they were "forced," because they knew it's for "spiritual growth". Seeing their situation, even I believed that they are of good intention, I still felt confused and scared, that I would be treated the same way in order to achieve "spirital grwoth". At that time, a leading sister just opened her house for 3 of us to live. (we previously lived in a small house, but it was crushed by a falling tree). She's aiming at a renewed life. I knew I should be supportive, yet I felted I was observed (remember they tried to help me) and feeling unease because I knew my heart was not there anymore.

One day, I got my car fixed at a mechanic store, and they sent me an Uber driver to send me home. On the way home, as me and the taxi-driver casually chatted about my church, she felt suspicious, and suggested me to look at Youtube videos about "cult". So I did. Doubt arose in my heart.

At the same night, it was a Friday meeting night, the sisters living with me told the leader that they felt I was not very engaged and there's something wrong with me these days. So the leader called me to him, asked me if I wanted to leave. I said, "I do, but I am afraid other people in the church will feel sad." He said, "I'm here, so they won't. Do you want to leave?" I said, "yes." So he announced to everyone saying I wanted to leave, and then he said, "I just tested her a little bit, she immediately confessed." I couldn't remember clearly what happened later; it was chaotic. They didn't know what happened to me. They thought I was "demon-possessed". In the beginning, I thought he did that purposely, so "others won't feel sad." So no matter what they accused me, I would not respond. But after half a meeting, I realized he meant what he said. The leader threatened me, "if you want to leave, leave tonight. All your luggage will be out now." I told them that my heart is not here; if I continue to be here because of other benefits, I'm trading. "Why do you want to make me stay this way?" But they accused me, "you are the one trading." I was already viewed as a bad person, reaping the benefits out of the church, and left afterward. So I had to find a house within three days and leave. At that time, I felt so desperate and uncertain. At midnight, I couldn't fall asleep, and I kneeled down to pray to God. "Lord, help me."

Mirically, I did find a house. In fact, I found several; I even had a choice to choose the best.

Before the following Sunday meeting, I already packed most of my stuff, but I still decided to go to the last meeting because I felt I owed this group a lot, they once helped me, cared about me, cheered me up and gave me good values. So even if they were angry and want to rebuke me, I was willing to accept it. But I didn't know that I would be so traumatized later. On that day, the leader thought I already planned for a long time to leave. "She's smart because she found a house within three days", he said bitterly. That Sunday was my last meeting. Between Friday and Sunday, a young sister's parents visited, and they asked me meet this parents as part of the sister's house. So I still came, helped, and tried to be nice. And honestly, at that moment I was so confused that I didn't even know if I could continue to believe in God or not. So the visiting parents tried to testify to me how they believed. But on Sunday, the leader referred to the performance of me before that parents and said, "do you see how fake she is?"

So that Sunday, basically, the other girl in the nursing program and I were bad examples in the teaching, using Bible knowledge, the Bible that I once whole-hearted believed, and being devoted to. I was accused of being like Cain, killing his brother. And at that time, they were studying revelation, so I was even compared with the prostitute in Revelation 17, because "I sold myself to the world". I never even had any relationship with a boy. Whatever they accused me of, I just felt like they wouldn't listen, because they have their own way to rationalize it, so I had to say, "fine". But the leader said the way I said "fine" was like how a prostitute accepting money from her customer.

What's worse is that, they once put me together with a boy to date with, or so-called "fellowship." I did confessed that I liked him. But later on, we were forced to break up and come back to common brothers and sisters, and the reason is that we loved each other too quickly and too close to each other and ignored other people's feeling, so we discarded God's will. But on Sunday, the leader told other people in the church that the reason I still stayed in the Church is because I wanted to marry him ( to get a green card). I couldn't keep silent hearing an insult like that, "NO! " I screamed, "it is not true". But the leader's daughter screamed at me, "shut up!" I knew this was a false accuse because if they didn't put us together, even if I liked him, I wouldn't even consider a husband 7 years older than me, of a different race with language and cultural barriers. My parents were strongly against it and I need "god's grace" to overcome these barriers. The leader pointed out all my drawbacks and mistakes in front of everyone, and that and asked the boy, "do you still love her?" and he said, "no." And his parents, who I once lived with when I had no other place to stay, said they no longer wanted me to marry their son because I didn't love God. The sister that I lived with and loved for a long time cast on me a hatred eye and told them, "don't be fooled by her!" I didn't realize how painful their reactions to me were until I told this story to a counselor and cried out loud.

That day, the leader asked the girl in the nursing program to pray; she couldn't. She said, "it didn't work; I tried." But the leader addressed that "you already knew, and you do believe." And they force the girl to cease studying for a year so that she can know the real labor so that she appreciates her study. She's not willing. Then they said, "look at your mother, look at all the kids here, why would you choose your degree rather than your mother, what an example you set for them." (she's always the one taking care of these kids as a big sister). My mind was screaming, saying it is "guilt-tripping." Because my mother once threatened me to come back to my own country with her life in the same way, and they told me about "guilt-tripping." But now they were doing the same thing themselves. I thought to myself, this is was not right, she had to have her own free will, even if it would be considered wrong in their eyes.

Because she couldn't pray, the leader turned to me and asked me to pray. I immediately did. I cried out to God: "Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, I could not comprehend what's going on here! I'm so confused!"  When I pray, I couldn't hold my truth thoughts anymore, so I turned around and said to that girl, "Just pray, you can pray anything, no matter you believe this God or not, as long as you are honest to yourself, even if you feel it is ridiculous, say it out!" This word "ridiculous" made everyone furious. They believed I was indeed demon-possessed. Even though I apologized that I used the wrong word, they said I was not sincere. And they thought I was trying to teach the girl to betray. They said I was "fake", because how can a person betrayed God already can pray.

So eventually, the leader asked me to go. "leave right now!“ He said. And I fleet away. But when I was ready to leave, two persons, the leading sister who's once my roommate and the house owner, and the brother who first led me to pray, came to me and prevented me from leaving. They wanted a reason. I couldn't tell them "because someone said you are a cult and I to some extent agree." So I kept my mouth shut. But they wouldn't let me go. The brother said, "we were rebuked in the meeting to benefit others, why can't you do that also?" and the sister said, "we've all been bad in the world, don't forget how you got your Ph.D. degree, I could make up something to let the school cancel it." (because they helped me to modify my purpose of statement and pushed me to apply in time) In fact, I think there's a moment she even wanted to beat me. I almost begged them "please just let me go, you said I am free to leave, but you didn't let me, what are you doing? I had an appointment with my new landlord and I had to go".

They eventually let me go. I fleet away as fast as I could, carrying only two suitcases and a car of luggage, leaving everything else behind. And the first person I saw was the landlord of my new room. I was crying to him like there's no tomorrow. Later, I felt scared by that sister's threatening because if she actually did so, I would not survive and had to go back to China in a bad way; these people are scholars, PhDs, ivy-league graduates, and I am nobody. Who would believe me and stand on my side? So I called the police office. But I was not willing to tell them who they were until he promised me that he won't let others knew. And the policeman, after hearing my story, asked me to call back if they actually did bad things, because it would be a crime.

When I left the church, I thought I went away as a whole. But afterward, I realized that I was broken. Using my friend's language, "they shattered your soul." In the subsequent half a year, I experienced a lot of traumatic reactions: lack of sleep, hard to concentrate, crying a lot, and mind wondering. I went to the school counselors several times, but it was not helpful, and I hated talking about this story over and over again. I just wanted to get over it as soon as possible. I want to replace everything I had in my previous church. So I bought a guitar (I borrowed the guitar from my church people before), and I went to a new church immediately introduced by my classmate, thinking that everything was about wrong practices and teaching. But I was wrong. Only time can cure me. Pushing things too fast actually was not good for me. It's been almost half a year. I believe I was very depressed back then. I got a gym card because I realized that I need to exercise to keep myself pumped up. And a bible teacher in the current church approached me, teaching me 1 v 1, and I thought I could refresh my Bible understanding by the correct teachings. But a lot of times Bible verses just triggered my painful memories, and how I was either accused by them or blaming myself using these verses. Eventually, I could no longer bear with touching my wounds over and over again; I could no longer trust Christian teaching which contains similar elements. Eventually, I had to stop going to churches.

This is what I gradually learned after leaving there. Jesus said, “I desire mercy, not sacrifice”. Faith and love are more than any religious work. Empathy to suffering people is more important than doing God’s work and following teachings. We need to respect who a person’s natural personality is. Some are more emotional, others are stronger, and this needs to be respected. “conform to Jesus Christ” doesn’t mean each person shall be equally hardworking and excellent. Some natural feelings such as sorrowfulness and resentfulness need to be respected also, not merely address that we need to be joyful if it is in the situation when people are having mental health issues or feeling hurt. Bible verses cannot be taken sentence by sentence; the context needs to be considered. Without love and mercy to people in view, doctrines will easily fall into rigid practices. But sometimes even if a person does things with good intention, it may not end up with a good result, because people are different and each view things differently.